---
title: "An Exploration of Student-Tutor Interactions in Computing"
collection: publications
pubtype: paper
permalink: /publication/2022-07-07-student-tutor-interactions-in-computing
excerpt: 'An Exploration of Student-Tutor Interactions in Computing'
date: 2022-07-07
venue: "ITiCSE '22: Proceedings of the 27th ACM Conference on on Innovation and Technology in Computer Science Education"
paperurl: 'https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3502718.3524786'
citation: '<b>Sophia Krause-Levy</b>, Rachel S. Lim, Ismael Villegas Molina, Yingjun Cao, and Leo Porter. 2022. An Exploration of Student-Tutor Interactions in Computing. <i>In Proceedings of the 27th ACM Conference on Innovation and Technology in Computer Science Education Vol. 1 (ITiCSE)</i>. 435–441. <a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3502718.3524786" target="_blank">doi:10.1145/3502718.3524786</a>'
---
As enrollments in computing courses have surged, the ratio of students to faculty has risen at many institutions. Along with many other large undergraduate programs, our institution has adapted to this challenge by hiring increasing numbers of undergraduate tutors to help students. In early computing courses, their role at our institution is primarily to help students with their programming assignments. Despite our institution offering a training course for tutors, we are concerned about the quality and nature of these student-tutor interactions. As instruction moved online due to COVID-19, this provided the unique opportunity to record all student-tutor interactions (among consenting participants) for research. In order to gain an understanding of the behaviors common in these interactions, we conducted an initial qualitative analysis using open coding followed by a quantitative analysis on those codes. Overall, we found that students are not generally receiving the instruction we might hope or expect from these sessions. Notably, tutors often simply give students the solution to the problem in their code without teaching them about the process of finding and correcting their own errors. These findings highlight the importance of tutoring sessions for learning in introductory courses and motivate remediation to make these sessions more productive.